Much earlier in this course.
Like in the first one or two sections, you saw me start up a new copy of a treatise on my computer
by using Docker as a reminder, Redis is an in-memory data store that is very commonly used with web
applications.
You saw me start up, I read this instance using Docker and it seemed to be really easy and very straightforward.
But I want to show you kind of an oddity around using Redis with Docker very quickly.
I took the liberty of installing Redis on my local machine directly without Docker being involved whatsoever,
because I want to show you the normal way in which we might interact with Redis.
I'm going to first start up an instance of the reddest server by running Red List server.
Now again, I am able to run this command because I installed red on my local machine without Docker
involved.
Chances are you do not have Redis installed on your computer, so don't try to run this command because
it's probably going to result in an error.
Now, when I run that command, you're going to see that.
Yep.
I get an instance of the red server running.
It's in-memory, it's ready to store data or do whatever I need it to do that.
One of the very common ways in which we can kind of poke into this thing or into the server and inspect
the data that is inside of it is by using a second program called the Redis CLI.
So on my computer I've already got rid of server running.
I'm going to now start up a second program called Read CLI.
And again, the entire purpose of this thing is to kind of reach into that server and poke around inside
of it.
So I'm going to open up a second terminal window and I'll run Redis CLI and that gives me a little prompt
right here that allows me to issue commands directly to the running server.
And so I can do something like store my number or something, not store, but set my number is five
and then I can then retrieve that value.
And it prints out five.
So this right here is the normal interaction that you would see with red is with red esele clearly it's
really nice to be able to run the red light and interact directly with information inside that running
red server.
All right.
So now you're probably wondering, where am I going with this?
Well, let's try starting up Redis using Docker, and then you're going to very quickly see some interesting
behavior around red clay.
So let's give it a shot.
I'm going to stop my running stuff.
And then I'm going to start up an instance of redness on my machine using Docker run Redis.
Now it's going to start up just about instantly for me.
For you, it might take a second or two as it has to download the image, but overall it should be pretty
darn quick.
When you start up Redis, you might see a couple of warnings.
Those are totally fine.
You can ignore them.
Just make sure that the very last line that you see is something that says Ready to accept connections.
So as long as you see that, you're good to go.
All right.
So this right here, what we are running right here is the reddest server.
So I now want to start up a copy of the red CLI and try to work with the information that is being handled
inside of this server.
As you saw just a moment ago, I was able to open up a second console window and run read CLI.
So maybe for Docker being involved here, maybe we just have to run like Red SEAL here.
Oh no.
That clearly doesn't do anything.
Maybe we need to start up a second terminal window and try running right a cli there.
Let's try that.
We'll open up a second window and then run rita cli.
Now, chances are you're going to see a message that says something like command not recognize or command
not found.
I see something that says could not connect to Redis.
So what's going on here?
Well, let's look at a diagram.
So just a second ago, we started up a new container that is running Redis server.
Now Redis is running only inside this container.
So if I tried to run Redis cli outside the container.
Outside the container, I have no access to anything that's going on inside there.
And so there is no reticle command to run outside the container.
If we want to start up the CLI, we need to somehow get into this container and execute a second command
inside of it like this.
We need to start up a second program inside the container.
So to figure out how to do so, let's take a quick break.
We'll come back the next section and figure out how we can execute a second command inside of a running
container.
So I'll see you in just a minute.